we're back with the bigger picture
angels part two and three to the Vatican
is waging a war on the devil treating an
army of priests in a special exorcism
course in Rome in part two of our story
angels and demons we introduce you
tonight
to a recent graduate father Gary Thomas
a modern-day Exorcist I very much
believe in the personification of evil
there is a being whom the Scriptures
refer to as Satan demons will attack the
Exorcist father Gary Thomas is an
exorcist handpicked by his Bishop to
fight the devil and the real-life
character in this newly released book
called the right a modern-day Exorcist
demons are more powerful than human
beings demons are are celestial beings
who've been who've been expelled from
heaven demons are angels and Lucifer or
whom we refer to as Satan Satan in the
scriptures in in the book of Revelation
was the most powerful of God's angels
father Thomas is a proud graduate of the
Vatican's exorcism school it was all
taught in Italian I had to have a
translator every week they brought in
lawyers to talk about the whole satanic
a world from a legal point of view they
brought in media people to talk about
entertainers and other forms of media
that have a satanic angle they brought
in exorcists they brought in priests
were involved the healing ministry they
brought in a theologian
father Thomas apprenticed under veteran
exorcists in Rome and was present for
almost 100 exorcisms
he says Hollywood's depiction isn't too
far off from what he witnessed
for example the person's eyes may begin
rolling in the back of their head the
person may begin drooling the person may
begin expressing a yawn that seems in
interminable like opening the mouth but
not a simple yawn it's very protracted
or they'll go into a body language that
would appear to be reptilian
he says all these exorcisms have a
common denominator I would say the
common denominator is you have to invoke
a demon either in some kind of a prayer
form or you perform some kind of a
ritual and father Thomas says most of
the exorcisms he's been called in for
are not with people possessed by the
devil but rather people with
psychological problems and that's why
before any exorcism takes place father
Thomas brings in his team the team
consists of I have a medical physician I
have a clinical psychologist and a
psychiatrist all of whom are practicing
Catholics all of them believe in the
possibility of Satan's existence and
then I have two priests on the team I've
been a Catholic all my life and I did
believe that Devils in the demonic world
existed dr. Richard Gallagher is a
respected psychiatrist an associate
professor at New York Medical College he
is part of the exorcism team I can
usually save them a lot of time by
saying you know based on my experience
as a academic psychiatrist this is
clearly a psychiatric case as opposed to
something that seems to go beyond that
dr. Gallagher admits his involvement
with exorcism is controversial among his
medical peers and while most of the
cases he's taken on are with patients
with psychological problems there have
been many inexplicable things he has
seen he tells a story of one particular
woman he examined there would be a kind
of odd malevolent sounding voice coming
out of these this individual and it
would say things like you know this
woman is ours you'll never get her you
know we hate you people now you know
just as a dramatic example of something
that I witnessed directly a little later
after my assessment of this woman I was
on a telephone conversation with the
priest who was going to do the exorcism
so we were speaking on the telephone
this woman was literally hundreds of
miles away now you know bizarre as it
sounds because it certainly was
experienced by me as bizarre at the time
that same voice came over the telephone
line that same voice you know leave her
alone she's ours
you know we hate you people's you know
very derogatory and the rights of
remarks especially about the police I
said to the priests did you hear that
and he was a very experienced Exorcist
he said he said of course I heard that
that was the demonic voice and that
happens all the time
it's estimated that there are 500
exorcists in Europe 15 in the US and as
for Canada well there are two that we
know of but according to the Catholic
Church they hope to change all that
father Thomas Muldoon is assistant to
the Archbishop of Ottawa and has been
involved in two exorcisms certainly one
of the things they would be looking for
is a very experienced a very pastoral
priest a very prayerful individual one
who is very close to the heart of the
church but I think a special desire to
see people set free and a willingness to
be able to fast and pray which is what
the Exorcist normally does in
preparation for that particular
celebration of healing whether or not
you believe in angels or demons the idea
of evil spirits is universal and for the
Catholic Church the army of exorcists is
growing for some reason I'm not afraid I
don't know why I'm just not I have to
tribute that to the grace of God most
priests and bishops who have with whom I
have talked
want nothing to do with this I'm not
afraid now that doesn't mean I don't
have respect for evil in that there's
great power in evil I've learned to
respect it more the longer I'm an
exorcist because demons will attack the
Exorcist and I've been attacked often
and demons attack you where you're
weakest